ID2.0 in the browser wallet (#672)
Concordium/concordium.github.io: source/mainnet/net/guides/create-proofs.rst

.. include:: ../../variables.rst
.. _create-proofs:

=============
Create proofs
=============

> The |bw| supports secret proofs that allow dApps or services to request proof that the user meets some requirement, such as proof the user is over a certain age, or resides in a specific range of countries or area. The user can choose whether they want to reveal these :ref:`attributes<glossary-attribute>` to the dApp or service. The dApp or service uses a :ref:`zero knowledge proof<glossary-zero-knowledge-proof>` to request proof of the attribute(s) necessary without revealing anything beyond the truth of the statement. The dApp or service can also request that attributes are revealed. The wallet owner chooses whether to prove or reveal these :ref:`attributes<glossary-attribute>` to the dApp or service.

Reviewer: Did we not agree to use the phrase "zero knowledge proof" instead of "secret proof"? The latter is not correct or meaningful.

Reviewer: Additionally, this part is misleading to me
```
The user can choose whether they want to reveal these :ref:`attributes<glossary-attribute>` to the dApp or service. The dApp or service uses a :ref:`zero knowledge proof<glossary-zero-knowledge-proof>` to request proof of the attribute(s) necessary without revealing anything beyond the truth of the statement.
```

there are two different things here as I see it.

In option one the user can choose to **reveal** the attributes directly. I think it is misleading to talk about zero knowledge proofs in this case since the attribute is just revealed.

In the second case only the weaker statement is revealed (such as "Residence in EU"), and there is a zero knowledge proof included (zero knowledge means you only get to know that the country is in EU in this case).

In the example below, the wallet owner's country of residence is requested to be revealed.

.. code-block:: console

    [
      {
        "type": "RevealAttribute",
        "attributeTag": "countryOfResidence"
      }
    ]

Unless it is absolutely critical to know a specific attribute, it is good policy to use the proof types below instead to determine a user's eligibility for your app instead of requesting that they reveal information to you.

Range proofs
============

:ref:`Range proofs<glossary-range-proofs>` allow you to present a range of values to the user's wallet to determine whether the user meets the required attribute. For example, you might want to know if a user over 18 years of age but under 30 years of age. You can present this as a range proof to be verified by the wallet.

Relevant attributes for range proofs are:

- Date of birth - Special helper
- ID valid to
- ID valid from (maybe?)

Structure a range proof
-----------------------

In the example below, you see a range proof constructed to check that wallet owner is between 25 and 65 years old (as of today's date).

.. code-block:: console

    {

>       "challenge": "a54bc4116655d247fa625d98f768d4d81e55ffe26ac6bab259bad5895d49ae00",

Reviewer: I think we need to have a diagram explaining the interactions between
- server/backend
- dapp
- wallet

And why this challenge thing is there.

>       "challenge": "a54bc4116655d247fa625d98f768d4d81e55ffe26ac6bab259bad5895d49ae00",

Author: Diagram made and I've added challenge to the glossary.

Relevant attributes for membership proofs are:

- Country of residence
- Country of nationality - Special EU helper
- Identity document type
- Identity document issuer

Structure a membership proof
----------------------------

In the example below, the proof checks that the wallet owner is a citizen of one of the Nordic countries (Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, or Iceland).

.. code-block:: console

    {
      "challenge": "6c7d69b121d4ce829392d9f2b16395708a458f6183caa20e9074e7283e377418",
      "statement": [
        {
          "type": "AttributeInSet",
          "attributeTag": "nationality",
          "set": [
            "DK",
            "FI",
            "IS",
            "NO",
            "SE"
          ]
        }
      ]
    }

Membership proofs can also prove that a user does NOT have an attribute or attributes, in other words a :ref:`non-membership proof<glossary-non-membership-proof>`. For example, if you need to know whether a user is a resident of a country that is subject to trade sanctions and cannot use your service, you might have a proof that determines whether the wallet owner resides in one or more of the countries.

> For example, the proof shown below determines if the wallet owner is a citizen of China or North Korea.

Reviewer: I find this phrasing a bit misleading.

What is shown below is a statement. The proof of this statement establishes that the (credential associated with the user)  is not a citizen of China or North Korea.

.. code-block:: console

    {
        "challenge": "4de5faf3d68c09e3e76fd8d82ce251c1ff0e49fdcc2661a2f875db35eba02f4d",
        "statement": [
          {
            "type": "AttributeNotInSet",
            "attributeTag": "nationality",
            "set": [
              "CN",
              "KP"
            ]
          }
        ]
    }

.. Note::

    Country codes to use for residence and nationality proofs are the `ISO-3166-1 alpha-2 codes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2>`_.

Example dApp
============

> Concordium provides the following example demo app and repo: (Still waiting)

Reviewer: TODO.

> The app is a gallery that requires the user to be over 18 years of age to view some content.

Reviewer: To avoid bad connotations, or misleading implications, would it not be better to make it 13+ or some such

.. include:: ../../variables.rst
.. _create-proofs:

=============
Create proofs
=============

> The |bw| supports proofs that allow dApps or services to request proof that the user meets some requirement, such as proof the user is over a certain age, or resides in a specific set of countries or area. The wallet owner chooses whether to prove these :ref:`attributes<glossary-attribute>` to the dApp or service. The dApp or service constructs a list of :ref:`statements<glossary-statement>` to request a corresponding list of :ref:`zero knowledge proofs<glossary-zero-knowledge-proof>` of the attribute(s) necessary without revealing anything beyond the truth of the statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |bw| allows dApps or services to request proofs that the user meets some requirement, such as proof the user is over a certain age, or resides in a specific set of countries or area. The wallet owner chooses whether to prove these :ref:`attributes<glossary-attribute>` to the dApp or service. The dApp or service constructs a list of :ref:`statements<glossary-statement>` to request a corresponding list of :ref:`zero knowledge proofs<glossary-zero-knowledge-proof>` of the attribute(s) necessary without revealing anything beyond the truth of the statement.
```

The dApp or service can also request that attributes are revealed. The wallet owner can choose whether they want to reveal these :ref:`attributes<glossary-attribute>` to the dApp or service.

> The diagram below shows the interaction between the Rust server/backend, the dApp, and the wallet.

Reviewer: I suggest omitting `Rust` there. Just `backend` is fine, it does not have to be Rus.t

.. image:: ../images/browser-wallet/proof-concept.png
    :width: 100%

> You have a Rust server or backend that contains the :ref:`challenge<glossary-challenge>` and the statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have a server or backend that contains the :ref:`challenge<glossary-challenge>` and the statement.
```

> 1. The dApp requests the challenge from the server/backend.

Reviewer: Should this link to the `challenge` in the glossary?

> 2. The server/backend returns the challenge to the dApp. The dApp uses it when sending the statement. Your dApp can request the statement from the server or it can contain the statement. If your dApp does not contain the statement, you must also request it from the server/backend.

Reviewer: The "you must also request it from the server" is not reallly correct.

```suggestion
2. The server/backend returns the challenge to the dApp. The dApp uses it when sending the statement. Your dApp can request the statement from the server or it can contain the statement. Note however that it is the backend that ultimately checks proofs, and so it must be aware of the statement.
```

Maybe.

3. The dApp sends a request for proof for the given challenge and statement to the wallet.
4. The wallet sends proof back to the dApp (if accepted by the user).

> 5. The dApp verifies the proof to the challenge on the server.

Reviewer 2: Very nice! 👍

> 5. The dApp verifies the proof to the challenge on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The dApp sends the proof to the backend which verifies it with respect to the challenge it has issued.
```

- ID document issuer
- ID valid from
- ID valid to
- National ID number
- Tax ID number

Asking a user to reveal attributes
==================================

You can construct a reveal statement in which the wallet owner must consent to reveal one or more specific attributes.

In the example below, the wallet owner's country of residence is requested to be revealed.

.. code-block:: console

    [
      {
        "type": "RevealAttribute",
        "attributeTag": "countryOfResidence"
      }
    ]

Unless it is absolutely critical to know a specific attribute, it is good policy to use the proof types below instead to determine a user's eligibility for your app instead of requesting that they reveal information to you.

Range proofs
============

:ref:`Range proofs<glossary-range-proofs>` allow you to present a range of values to the user's wallet to determine whether the user meets the required attribute. For example, you might want to know if a user over 18 years of age but under 30 years of age. You can present this as a range proof to be verified by the wallet.

Relevant attributes for range proofs are:

- Date of birth
- ID valid to
- ID valid from

.. Note::

>   Age proofs are a common abstraction on date of birth proofs. There are helper functions in the SDK(link?) to aid in constructing these.

Reviewer: TODO: (link?)

Structure a range proof
-----------------------

In the example below, you see a range proof constructed to check that wallet owner is between 25 and 65 years old (as of 2022-12-12).

.. code-block:: console

    {
      "challenge": "a54bc4116655d247fa625d98f768d4d81e55ffe26ac6bab259bad5895d49ae00",
      "statement": [
        {
          "type": "AttributeInRange",
          "attributeTag": "dob",
          "lower": "19571212",
          "upper": "19971212"
        }
      ]
    }

Membership proofs
=================

:ref:`Membership proofs<glossary-membership-proof>` allow you to present a list of values to the user's wallet to determine whether the user has one of the required attributes in the list. For example, you might want to know if a user is a resident of the EU. You can present this as a membership proof to be verified by the wallet.

Relevant attributes for membership proofs are:

- Country of residence
- Country of nationality
- Identity document type
- Identity document issuer

.. Note::

>   Country of nationality has helper functions in the SDK(link?) to aid in constructing statements.

Reviewer 2: If it's the EU-membership helper you mean, here is a link to the docs for the JS SDK:

https://github.com/Concordium/concordium-node-sdk-js/tree/main/packages/common#eu-membership

          "set": [
            "DK",
            "FI",
            "IS",
            "NO",
            "SE"
          ]
        }
      ]
    }

Membership proofs can also prove that a user does NOT have an attribute or attributes in a set, in other words a :ref:`non-membership proof<glossary-non-membership-proof>`. For example, if you need to know whether a user is a resident of a country that is subject to trade sanctions and cannot use your service, you might have a proof that determines whether the wallet owner resides in one or more of the countries.

For example, the statement below asks if the wallet owner is a citizen of China or North Korea.

.. code-block:: console

    {
        "challenge": "4de5faf3d68c09e3e76fd8d82ce251c1ff0e49fdcc2661a2f875db35eba02f4d",
        "statement": [
          {
            "type": "AttributeNotInSet",
            "attributeTag": "nationality",
            "set": [
              "CN",
              "KP"
            ]
          }
        ]
    }

.. Note::

    Country codes to use for residence and nationality proofs are the `ISO-3166-1 alpha-2 codes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2>`_.

Example dApp
============

> Concordium provides the following example demo app and repo: (Still waiting)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Concordium provides the following example demo app and repo on `gallery.testnet.concordium.com <https://gallery.testnet.concordium.com>`
```

> The app is a gallery that requires the user to be over a certain minimum age to view some content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The app is a gallery that requires the user to be over a certain minimum age and a EU resident to view some content.
```
